My father died when I was 16 years old and I have two siblings. I am a working student until I finished my studies in college as a Computer Programmer. I helped my family and became the breadwinner. I really want to go abroad to sustain the needs of my family. But unfortunately, I got pregnant and had my own family. I didn't give them what I promised I will buy a house and a lot for my mom. I broke what I promised them. Felt so upset at that time and was not ready to have an upcoming baby. I was 23 when I got pregnant and was lucky because my husband didn't leave me. We have a lot of misunderstandings, on and off relationships but in God's will, still going stronger. We have three children and I have a happy family. I am successful in the corporate world, I easily got jobs. A call center agent, administrative assistant/supervisor, etc. My youngest sister and my mom look after my kids when we are at work. We lived in my mom's house so they helped us and vice versa.

In the year 2017, my husband told me that I need to resign from work because I need to focus on my kids. Though it is hard for me to do that I need to be submissive to my husband. I am the one who took them to school, does the house chores, cooks food for them, and teaches them their lessons in school. I feel tired because of the daily routine. It was the year 2019 when I applied as Appointment Setter and got hired, I was working from home. That year I felt something that was something wrong with my health. I always had headaches, colds,s and coughs,s and sometimes my nose bled. I ignored that symptom though that it is normal. Same daily routine and continue with my work. In December 2019, My nose continues to bleed I thought that it won't stop. I got scared that time and my family too. So, I rushed to the hospital and did a CT scan. My Ct scan result got me so scared that I had tumors in my maxillary and need to have a biopsy. After a week we got the result and my whole world collapsed when my doctor told me that I had ACC Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma stage3 cancer. I cried every day, I can't accept that it will happen to me.  

Fast forward, to March 2020 when I had my operation. The doctor removed my right eye to make sure that the cancer cells will eliminate. My husband is the only one who took care of me due to the pandemic and my siblings took care of my children. Felt so down, and upset, I pity myself because of how I looked. Done my 33 radiation therapy, I thought I can’t make it. I feel dizzy, always vomiting, can't eat, and can't sleep. I admired my husband, he is the one who encourages me every time I feel down. Maybe God has plans for me and everything happens according to his purpose. Our family became much closer to God. I thank God for giving me another chance to live and be with my family. Another problem that we encountered is how to survive with our everyday living. We had a lot of bill payments, debt, and our daily needs to sustain. I felt worthless coz I can’t help my husband regarding this matter. So I decided to see if I can work from home and give it a try. I sent my proposal to different platforms and had a lot of interviews but sad to say no one accepted me. Said that they prepared an experienced one than a newbie like me or the other asked me if I had health issues. I was so desperate to find a job and I joined a different community group where I can enhance my knowledge and skills as a Virtual Assitant. 

One day, I saw a post about Virtualahan and I hurriedly sent a message and got a response from them. I applied and was blessed to be a part of the Virtualahan student. I was amazed during the orientation because they give empathy, encouragement, and hope to many PWDs like me. By that day, I felt that I can have a great future ahead of me. I was motivated by the bills, debt, and my goal to thrive in the freelancing world. I want to help my mom and my siblings, help the church ministry, for the future of my kids, and also I want to save money to have an orbital prosthetic eye. I want to bring back my confidence and can walk into the street without covering my face. Day1 class, we know each other and had our GC. We had different stories but we had one goal, to have a job after the training and never lose hope. I have blessed coz I belong to team 60 where we are like sisters and brothers. We help each other and share ideas in our activities. The coaches and tech are kind and considerate. I really love our team. We are united, we are one family. I am looking forward that after graduation lots of job opportunities will come to us. We are ready to face the challenges and fulfill our goals in life. I can sustain our needs and my dreams will come true. So excited to save money to buy my orbital prosthetic eye. That’s the story of my life.
